---
layout: post
title: Social Media Use and Emotions
date: 2024-05-22
description: How do you feel when you are using social media?
tags: graph fun
categories:
thumbnail: assets/img/ssec.jpg
---

Dataset Source: [Social Media Usage and Emotional Well-Being](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/emirhanai/social-media-usage-and-emotional-well-being)

Its pretty commonly known that social media is a hotspot for negative emotional wellbeing. This is for a variety of reasons, including negative perception on one's self image, inadequate amount of self validation, bullying, self comparison, the list really goes on forever. Personally, social media has transformed into a way to communicate negative emotions to other people. You can see this through the type of content being released on Instagram, where people seem to spread negativity and a depressing outlook on life.

Even when positive content is released, people often compare themselves to the image they see online, and wonder if they can achieve the lifestyle represented on their screen.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/sse.jpg" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    From descending order, the social media apps are: WhatsApp, Twitter, Messenger, SnapChat, LinkedIn, Instagram and Facebook.
</div>

Some interesting things to note is how Messenger and Twitter have the highest percentage of angry users, Twitter does not suprise me at all. The happiest app is Instagram, and my hypothesis and reasoning for this is that this app has the highest potential of social validation, as people can post and send stories where other followers can like. And obviously, LinkedIn has the highest users emitting boredom.